So for dead as mentioned I'm back in the project we worked on and of course now the edited product screen
here is what I'm interested in.
This is the screen where I have these text inputs here with my labels and then the text input where
we currently have a very basic input handling.
We are at least fetching the user input and storing it with the help of you react state with the use
state hook.
We're then feeding the android values back into the input and that's it.
This allows us to capture and use the user input but for one we can improve how we do that we can write
does it no more reusable way and we're not doing any validation whatsoever.
So these are the things I want to change in this module.
In addition we also are not configuring our inputs in any way.
That means that right now all text inputs are equal.
We don't want to change the type of keyboard we're presenting.
We're not offering multi line input for example for longer texts like here for the description.
None of that is happening and therefore let's actually start with configuring these inputs before we
move on to validations on one important configuration which you can add to your keyboards is the keyboard
type the keyboard type prop can be set and there you've got a couple of values available now you've
got quite a bit of value is here but you official box are also plays which you should consult when thinking
about the type you want to sign here because when you it the official text input documentation you of
course see some examples but then you also see all the props you have and there you can learn more about
each prop and how you may configured and for the keyboard type.
For example we learned that only these types are supported cross platform.
So whilst we have specific Iaw and Android types of way lable these types can only be used together
with a platform check.
So did you make sure you don't use the type on Android which isn't supported there and which therefore
wouldn't have any effect.
Hence I will stick to the cross platform types so that I don't have to add extra platform check in there.
Typically for let's say normal text we would stick to default which of course therefore is a type we
don't have to assign but that for example changes when we have a look at our price input there I want
to make sure that people only enter valid numbers that they don't enter any text and therefore of course
I want to show the right keyboard to help them with this.
And if we have a look at the official documentation we see that there are three main cross platform
types of keyboards we can show no pat decimal pattern numeric and there for example decimal pad as an
input which allow us to user to enter decimal numbers which is just what I want here for my price so
therefore setting this keyboard to type here makes a lot of sense because now if we have a look at this
price input here and I toggle the soft keyboard which you can do with the command K shortcut here on
ISIS or with the hardware menu up there then keyboard toggles software keyboard you see that.
Now I got this decimal keyboard opening up here whereas on the other inputs I have a normal text keyboard
and of course that's the same on Android.
If we go to admin there and then have a look at the price we also see that there were presented with
this no friendly input instead of the normal text keyboard which we get on the operating input fields.
So this is how we can configure decent is of course an important configuration we can all configure
of things for example here on the title input here.
If you hit control space and you have a look at the autocomplete you see there are a bunch of things
you can configure for example whether this should be auto capitalized dear you have different values
which you can set for example that character should be capitalized only full sentences or words and
here all go for full sentences for example to help with capitalizing those.
You also can turn on auto correction and by adding it like this you ensured that auto correction is
turned on for does it input by setting it to fall as you could disable it or by just omitting it of
course that's also an option and zone there are a bunch of things you can configure and I would strongly
recommend as always that you have a look at the official docs as well to learn about the way label configuration
options and what they do.
Also simply play around with those so that you get an idea for what you can do there and what each option
does and well what might make sense for your next application one other value which one is that for
example is to return key type.
This can be set to a couple of values.
And again if you check your official box you will learn that not all values are available on all platforms
only these five are available cross platform and there you can basically configure this button in the
bottom right corner if you have a look at your input here
and you click into any of the inputs it's this button here in the bottom right corner which says return
here for the image you are L now on the title I set it next.
So if you click into the title field you now see here it says whiter which is German for next and this
is just because I'm a German emulator here and let me also restart this on Android because it crashed
there so that I can show it there as well.
If we go to our input there click onto the title you see this next button here on the image your l You
have just done button here and that can be configured with the return key type though.
Please be aware that this only controls how it is this displayed what it says Dear what's the label
on there or which kind of buttons percent.
It does not automatically change what this button does for example fit like the white or button this
keyboard closes.
The same is true for click the return key here.
And when we talk about behaviors of text inputs then all the events we can listen to our interesting
with on you get an idea of all the events you can listen to.
For example there you got on blur which fires whenever I input it loses focus on change would fires
on every keystroke and gives you the full input event on change text which also fires on every keystroke
but only gives you the text which was entered which typically is what you're more interested in though
on end editing where we can also get an idea for when this fire is so by enter on end editing here let's
see when this prints in the console.
If I now go here to my input and please note I'm on the Tidal input so if I type data test we see didn't
fire here the click out of this.
Now it fired on end editing The same is true for click the wider button here for example.
So basically whenever we leave this keyboard with the focus or in general when we click that's done
button there as well.
In addition we also have other listeners for like on focus which obviously fires when this input gains
focus or also on selection change when we select text and there or on submit editing which is fired
wind does return button is clicked.
So if I add ons up Mitt editing here when I add this listener as well and all that a consular statement
you see that.
Now this will fire whenever I type in here does not fire whenever I click out of here.
It also doesn't fire.
We only got to get the on end editing log here but it will fire if I pressed the wider key here.
There you see on submit editing.
So this is a listener you would use to listen to when the return key is clicked and then you can do
whatever you want to do like submit your data or automatically move the focus to the next input with
the help of references for example if you want to.
This is how you can configure this and as I said I would recommend that you dive into this to get a
feeling for how it is works.
I now will move one or whoever and I want to make sure that we don't just listen to inputs and stored
the values but that we also validate what the user enters.